Good morning. It's Tuesday, April fourteenth, twenty twenty-six. Day two
of the thirty-day reset. Here's your briefing. Weather first. Jefferson
City is sixty-seven degrees right now and heading to ninety.
Ninety degrees in mid-April. That's mid-June weather dropped into a
Tuesday. There's a thirty-four percent chance of afternoon storms, and
tomorrow crashes back to seventy-three with a sixty-three percent chance
of rain. Classic Missouri. Over in Tacoma, Katelyn's looking at
forty-four degrees, overcast, and ninety-eight percent chance of rain. The
whale watching window from Sunday is officially closed. On your
calendar — Calendar app wasn't running again this morning, so
I'm working from context. You've got soccer at seven P-M
tonight, which Katelyn mentioned in texts. Unbound Book Festival starts
Thursday — that's April sixteenth through the nineteenth in Columbia.
Panels are Saturday, you're staying at Mom and Dad's Friday
night. The keynote speaker this year is Terry Tempest Williams,
which is a great pull. Molly's Miles ten-K is eleven
days out, and Capital City Race is twenty-five days. Training
window is now. Messages from Katelyn. The package arrived and
she loved it. Quote: "Perfect, love it and you." End
quote. Her friend Kyley is having a baby girl in
September — Katelyn's excited about it. She also mentioned struggling
with a metformin evaluation project at work, which sounds like
a coverage determination or systematic review for the health plan.
She doesn't usually bring up work stress in texts, so
it's worth being attentive to. And she affirmed the Anthropic
application again — still feeling positive. Dustin's been texting about
foldable iPhone rumors. With W-W-D-C fifty-five days out, the speculation
is heating up. Now for the big stories. The Axios
A-M lead today is that Trump's M-A-G-A coalition is fracturing.
It's not just one crack — it's multiple vectors. Tariffs
are alienating business-wing Republicans. Immigration enforcement is now hitting legal
residents, generating backlash from evangelical communities that sponsored refugee families.
And Trump's personal feuds — the Pope Leo the fourteenth
thing, calling Starmer Chamberlain over Iran — are creating distance
with soft supporters who voted on the economy. The coalition
math that delivered twenty twenty-four may not hold for midterms.
This matters for your work directly: when the national coalition
fractures, the policy mandates coming down to state agencies get
contradictory and harder to implement. Second big story: Casey Newton
at Platformer has a piece called "Sam Altman's Second Thoughts."
It's about the growing A-I backlash and Altman's public reckoning
with it. His house has been attacked twice in three
days — a Molotov cocktail on Friday, a shooting on
Sunday. Two people arrested for the second attack, the first
attacker charged with attempted murder. The Onion published "Sam Altman
Starts Lying About What He Told His Therapist," which got
fifty-five thousand upvotes. The cultural valence around Altman has shifted
from "visionary" to "target," both literally and figuratively. And remember
— OpenAI already reversed the full for-profit conversion last May.
The nonprofit retains control. But the Musk lawsuit is heading
to trial April twenty-seventh, seeking to unwind even that compromise.
For Anthropic, this environment is where their public benefit corporation
structure becomes a genuine differentiator. Third: an internal OpenAI C-R-O
memo is reportedly attacking Anthropic's enterprise revenue and market traction.
This is Reddit-sourced and unverified on the specifics, but if
OpenAI's sales team is spending energy on Anthropic, that's indirect
validation that Anthropic's enterprise growth is real enough to worry
them. Good competitive context given your application. On the Iran
front, it's day two of the naval blockade. Brent crude
is still above a hundred dollars, eased slightly from yesterday's
hundred-and-three spike. The key development: Semafor is reporting that new
talks may be floated this week, possibly through Oman or
Turkey. If that happens, the blockade was either a negotiating
tactic that worked or a provocation that forced intermediaries to
act. Manifold has U-S invades Iran with ground troops at
thirty-one percent, up from the low twenties. Iran regime fall
by twenty-thirty at sixteen percent. The market doesn't think the
regime is in existential danger from this. In tech news:
Claude is now switching models mid-conversation — users reporting Opus
dropping to Sonnet without notification. Eleven hundred upvotes on the
Claude A-I subreddit. This connects to yesterday's Stratechery piece on
compute constraints. France is migrating its government from Windows to
Linux, a digital sovereignty play — the same instinct driving
your M-O-L-I-S vision. And Zuckerberg is building an A-I clone
of himself for Meta A-I interactions, which is... very Zuckerberg.
Today's arXiv papers form a neat cluster that's practically a
starter kit for your A-I policy doc. ClawGuard is about
runtime security for A-I agents. PlanGuard defends multi-step L-L-M plans
from prompt injection. A-D-A-M shows how adversarial inputs can extract
agent memory. And there's a study on sycophancy in L-L-Ms
— when and why models agree with users against their
better judgment. If you're building agentic A-I systems for government,
you need all four of these concepts addressed. Prediction markets:
Anthropic surpasses OpenAI valuation at fifty-eight percent. Anthropic flips OpenAI
before twenty twenty-eight at sixty-five percent. The market thinks the
trajectory is real but the timeline is tight. Closing thought.
Yesterday you walked into the woods and figured out what
the next thirty days are for: producing, not consuming. The
arXiv papers this morning are practically begging you to start
that A-I policy doc. The M-A-G-A coalition story is a
reminder that the policy landscape shifts under your feet whether
you're ready or not. And the Altman situation is a
signal that even the most powerful people in A-I are
recalibrating. Day two. Build something. That's your morning. Have a
good one, Jacob.